README.md, before:

# Relationships Between Health and Logged Video Game Play Across Platforms

🟢️ The output from this repo can be viewed at [https://digital-wellbeing.github.io/platform-study-rr/](https://digital-wellbeing.github.io/platform-study-rr/). 🟢️

This repo hosts the data for our project on video game play and wellbeing. Its key elements are:
- `data-process.qmd`, which processes the raw data into cleaned data
- `index.qmd`, which generates manuscript documenting the dataset
- `data/raw`, which contains the minimally processed, pseudonymized raw data
- `data/clean`, which contains cleaned data ready for analysis

# Reproducing

To reproduce the primary data manuscript, run `quarto render`. To reproduce the data manuscript and the simulations, run `quarto render --profile sim`. 

Data files are saved as .csv.gz for size. These can either be unzipped and opened in a spreadsheet program, or read directly into R using `readr::read_csv()` or Python using `pandas.read_csv()`.

# Contributing

Contributors should ensure they are up-to-date on the `main` branch, and that they have installed all the necessary packages from `renv` by running `renv::restore()` in R. 

Contributors should then:

- create a new branch for their work
- make any desired changes (for readability, we recommend making frequent small commits focused on changing an individual feature, but these can be pushed less frequently)
- run `quarto render` locally to ensure their changes do not break the build
- submit a pull request when they are ready to merge their changes back into `main`. 

Rendering locally will update the _freeze folder, which in turn will update the GitHub Pages site when the PR is merged; make sure PRs commit changes to _freeze or they will fail the build check.

## R code

In `R/`, we have a number of helper functions used in the analysis scripts, as well as unit_tests (currently implemented for the key function used to clean Xbox data, `canonicalize_xbox_sessions()`. Supplementary features can be added by adding new scripts to this folder.

## Simulation 

🔴️ The simulatio analysis pipeline is not currently integrated into the rendering pipeline - Nick will fix. 🔴

- In `1_preprocess.qmd`, we clean the data and calculate relevant derived variables (e.g., mean scores, play behavior metrics, and so on).

We then analyze these data in the following scripts:

- In `2_basicNeeds.qmd`, we present the analysis code for Study 1: the relationship between basic needs and video game play.
- In `3_sleep.qmd`, we present the analysis code for Study 2: the relationship between sleep and video game play.
- In `4_genres.qmd`, we present the analysis code for Study 3: the relationship between video game genres and video game play.

Commit message:

fix simulations flow (#65)
* fix simulations flow

* update renv to remove unused simulation packages

README.md, after:

# Relationships Between Health and Logged Video Game Play Across Platforms

🟢️ The output from this repo can be viewed at [https://digital-wellbeing.github.io/platform-study-rr/](https://digital-wellbeing.github.io/platform-study-rr/). 🟢️

This repo hosts the data for our project on video game play and wellbeing. Its key elements are:
- `data-process.qmd`, which processes the raw data into cleaned data
- `index.qmd`, which generates manuscript documenting the dataset
- `data/raw`, which contains the minimally processed, pseudonymized raw data
- `data/clean`, which contains cleaned data ready for analysis

# Reproducing

To reproduce the primary data manuscript, run `quarto render`. To reproduce the data manuscript and the simulations, run `quarto render --profile sim`. 

Data files are saved as .csv.gz for size. These can either be unzipped and opened in a spreadsheet program, or read directly into R using `readr::read_csv()` or Python using `pandas.read_csv()`.

# Contributing

Contributors should ensure they are up-to-date on the `main` branch, and that they have installed all the necessary packages from `renv` by running `renv::restore()` in R. 

Contributors should then:

- create a new branch for their work
- make any desired changes (for readability, we recommend making frequent small commits focused on changing an individual feature, but these can be pushed less frequently)
- run `quarto render` locally to ensure their changes do not break the build
- submit a pull request when they are ready to merge their changes back into `main`. 

Rendering locally will update the _freeze folder, which in turn will update the GitHub Pages site when the PR is merged; make sure PRs commit changes to _freeze or they will fail the build check.

## R code

In `R/`, we have a number of helper functions used in the analysis scripts, as well as unit_tests (currently implemented for the key function used to clean Xbox data, `canonicalize_xbox_sessions()`. Supplementary features can be added by adding new scripts to this folder.

## Simulation 

For the Stage 1 Registered Report associated with this project, we did extensive simulations to validate our data collection and analyses. These remain present in the current repo, and can be run by using the `--profile sim` flag when rendering the quarto documents. This will then generate a book instead of a website. 

Data for the simulations is found in `data/synthetic`. 

The simulation pipeline consists of:

- [not run] `0_generateSyntheticData.qmd`, documents the internal process we used to generate synthetic data
- `1_preprocess.qmd` cleans the data and calculates relevant derived variables (e.g., mean scores, play behavior metrics, and so on).
- `2_basicNeeds.qmd` presents the analysis code for Study 1: the relationship between basic needs and video game play.
- `3_sleep.qmd` presents the analysis code for Study 2: the relationship between sleep and video game play.
- `4_genres.qmd` presents the analysis code for Study 3: the relationship between video game genres and video game play.
